People have special obligations towards their fellow citizens, and foreign nationals if their nation of residence has benefited them. Along Miller's line of thought, I believe that these special obligations should take priority over assistance to "outsiders", with outsiders not including foreign nationals. This being said, this special obligation does not exclude the optional positive duty of aiding those in other countries, so long as doing so does not hinder one from fulfilling the special obligations to one's fellow citizens and foreign nationals. Furthermore, the need of "outsiders" can take priority, but not necessarily trump, those of citizens and foreign nationals in cases where there is causational evidence that one's own nation is directly responsible for another nation's demise. Pogge, a cosmopolitan, firmly believes this. Along a similar vein, when aiding others in other countries it makes sense to aid those who belong to demographics for whom less justice exists globally. However, this is not to say that in doing so we are following Rawls final principle delineated in The Law of Peoples, where he says that we are also obligated to assist nations whose conditions prevent their citizens from having a just or decent political or social regime. 
Special obligations can be considered to be one's obligation to ensure the well being and maintenance of rights and liberties of other individuals, when applied to those who one owes or shares common bonds with, such as family members, fellow citizens and one's nation, for example. Miller defines one's universal obligations as securing the "rights of life, [and] liberty" of others (Miller, p.60). It follows, therefore, that one's special obligations are applying these universal obligations to one's fellow citizens. In a similar vein, Miller goes on to say that our special obligations involve giving "special weight to interests of fellow-members" (Miller, p.65), and giving members of one's state "priority when acting as individuals and when deciding on public policy" (p.68). Pogge, along a similar vein, tells us that if we do have an obligatory duty of poverty alleviation, it is reasonable for that poverty alleviation to be directed at relatives, neighbors and compatriots (Pogge, p.19). Pogge would therefore say that poverty alleviation is an obligation that we owe, but would say that there is no special obligation towards anyone other than those who we have directly put in a position of poverty. Rawls on the other hand views obligations to have a broader scope, and that the obligation of maintaining the just law of peoples applies to everyone, particularly those in power, and should be exacted over everyone. While Miller is the only one of the three to directly define what special obligations are in terms of whom they should be directed towards, I believe that said definition can be applied to Pogge and Rawls' obligatory parameters, in that the obligations that Pogge and Rawls delineate can be applied towards fellow citizens and contributing non-national residents. Furthermore, I believe that while the three differ on details of what they believe the obligations are, the three obligations that hold across all three are obligations to maintain the well being of others, and to maintain the rights and liberties of others. In conclusion, special obligations are therefore one's obligations to fellow citizens and contributing non-national residents to maintain their well being, rights and liberties. 
A reason why one certainly has special obligations to fellow citizens is because of the benefit one has gained from being a part of the cooperative scheme of belonging to a nation. In On Nationality, Miller tells us that one's "obligations to... [one's] fellow-citizens derive from [a] common participation in a practice from which all may expect to benefit," (p. 61). This is to say that as a member of a nation, one is "part of an ongoing scheme of cooperation" (Miller, p. 61) from which one derives benefits. These benefits are owed not as a means by which to gain future benefits, but as a means of contributing to a cooperative scheme from which all might benefit. I believe that this is reasonable, since we owe our community, in this case our nation, the upholding of its values, as well as the degree of cooperation required for the nation to be able to benefit us.
Not only do we also owe these special obligations due to the cultural and experiential bonds we share with our fellow citizens, but we also owe them to foreign nationals that are law-abiding, contributing members of society. Miller's argument that one's obligation to one's fellow-citizens derives from a common participation in practices from which all benefit (p. 61) can also be applied to the case of foreign nationals. By being a contributing, law-abiding foreign national is also taking part in the scheme of cooperation. Therefore, it would not be unreasonable for these foreign nationals to benefit from the same special obligations that one's fellow-citizens are party to. Furthermore, Miller also places great value on the cultural and experiential bonds that members of a nation share. Both citizens and law-abiding, contributing foreign nationals have shared cultural and experiential values. This is through their shared following of a nations values, via following laws, and relatable life experiences gained from spending large amounts of time in the same country. While foreign nations most likely do maintain some of their own identity, they certainly have acquired some of the cultural and experiential identity that citizens of their country of residence share. As a result, these foreign nationals share the same bonds that the members share, and, along these lines, should also benefit from the special obligations that one's fellow-citizens do. 
Miller's idea of ethical particularism builds on this, in that the obligations owed to groups such as one's family and local community are distinct from those owed to people in general (p. 50). Along these lines, if members of one's community are foreign nationals, then these special obligations should also apply to them. Despite not being fellow-citizens, they are still a part of the group one feels loyalty to, and should therefore be treated accordingly, therefore receiving the special obligations owed to fellow-citizens.
While it is reasonable that one has special obligations towards one's fellow nationals and foreign nationals that take priority over obligations to others, one do have a positive duty of responsibility to "outsiders". This scenario is only applicable if one is directly responsible for causing death or suffering through one's own actions. Pogge says that if one has been involved in transactions that have either caused deaths (p. 17) or denied people their basic necessities, we are obligated to assist them. This could be expanded to the idea that if one's nation, which one has benefited from, has caused suffering of peoples of other nations we must also have an obligation to assist the peoples involved. This is because one has gained from that peoples' demise, and therefore has a positive duty to assist that poor nation. 
This being said, while belonging to a nation that has caused injustice may implicates one with the obligation to make amends, there is no way that any individual citizen can be directly found guilty of committing injustice. It then follows that individuals belonging to a nation, unless they themselves are the routes of the injustices, do not have an obligation of assistance to outsiders. Furthermore, there are even cases where the nation in question can't necessarily be held responsible, and where wealthy citizens of poor nations, and the poorer nations governments, have not done anything to help those in poverty under their rule. In some cases, the local governments of these nations have actively damaged their poor. Therefore, where injustice is committed towards "outsiders", one is only truly obligated to assist if there is clear direct cause by the individual in question. Even in situations where one's own nation is directly responsible, it is the nation's remedial duty to make amends, and not the individual's. 
It could also be argued that while we have special obligations towards our own citizens and foreign nationals, we also have an obligation of non-intervention towards "outsiders". Rawls tells us "peoples are to observe a duty of non-intervention," (p. 37). This is to say that when another nation (i.e. "outsiders") are dealing with poverty and unrest, it is our duty to not involve ourselves. This could make sense in that nations and citizens of nations are not in a position to precisely know the issues in play in these situations with poorer nations, and that by interfering they could cause even more problems in those areas. Not only this, but interference could be entirely ineffectual; resources that could have been used to help those in need in one's own nation, thereby maintaining the reciprocal co-operative scheme, have been wasted. In doing so, this somewhat hinders a person in their efforts to fulfill their special obligations. The sentiment that we should not interfere, as it results in a hindering of one's ability to fulfill special obligations towards fellow citizens and foreign nationals, is a reasonable one. It would, however, be more reasonable for one to have the right to assist with the maintaining of the well being, rights and liberties of "outsiders" if it does not inhibit one from fulfilling their special obligations. Therefore, the special obligations to our fellow citizens and foreign nationals do not exclude us from aiding "outsiders". It would also be unreasonable for global justice as a whole to suffer from a policy of observing special obligations and while observing these special obligations is important, it is also important that we take a cosmopolitan view for the sake of global well being. There are certain groups, such as people of color, females, and the very young (Pogge, p. 13), that on a global scale have lower levels of well being, and less maintained rights and liberties. Given that their own fellow-citizens and foreign nationals won't fulfill their own obligations to them, it could therefore be argued that there is an extra obligation to assist those who receive no assistance. This is particularly poignant in that many of the poverty related causes of death are due to a lack of things like vaccines, antibiotics, and necessary nutrition (Pogge, p. 13). These are seemingly "easily preventable" (p. 13) in some cases of natural disasters, and allocating resources to these serially under-prioritized peoples would certainly not be a bad thing if it did not hinder us from fulfilling our minimum special obligations towards our fellow citizens and foreign nationals. As is such, while I disagree with the notion that aiding these demographics is a matter of obligation, or justice, I do believe that helping those in extreme poverty should be pursued. Demographics, such as those that Pogge mentions, should not be excluded from access to rights, liberties and well being due to special obligations towards fellow and foreign nationals being excessive. 
This being said, there should be no duty of intervention in scenarios where peoples are living under unjust political and social regimes that are the reason for their being unable to have access to basic human rights. Rawls says that there is a duty to assist these people (p. 37), with this scenario being the only exception to his previous stated rule of non-intervention. While this principle often pertains more to military intervention, I think it can be applied to assistance in terms of improving the well being of those who are suffering. This is in theory a good thing because one would be helping people in need to regain their basic rights and liberties. However, to make it a duty, and to do it as a way of circumventing installing just political powers, ignores the principle of people having special obligations to their fellow citizens and foreign nationals, in that we are removing said obligation for the country being assisted. The difference between this and optionally assisting those who belong to a demographic that is systematically substantially worse off on a global level is that those globally in greater poverty are so not as a result of their particular political regimes, but because of cultural trends in justice in many states. In helping these demographics we are not necessarily removing the obligation of others to help their citizens, and are therefore not perpetuating the persistence of an inherently unjust state, as we would be by assisting nations who's political systems are structured to cause inequality. Therefore, one does not have a duty to intervene in scenarios where people live under unjust political and social regimes, and, in terms of giving aid, should in fact be discouraged in doing so. This is because resources that could be used for fulfilling the special obligations to one's fellow-citizens and foreign nationals are being wasted. 
Overall, I believe that one has a duty to fulfill one's special obligations to one's fellow citizens and foreign nationals, as they play a role in the reciprocal cooperative scheme that exists in a functional nation. This being said, while these special obligations should take priority over other matters of assistance, they should not do so to the point of excluding one from assisting "outsiders". The assisting of outsiders should not be carried out to the point of limiting one's ability to fulfill their special obligations. The only situation in which there is a positive obligation to other nations is where peoples of a poorer nation do not enjoy basic rights and liberties as a result of an observable, causational and direct action of oneself. Even in situations where one's nation has caused the suffering in the other nation, it is the nation that should make amends. Furthermore, to intervene in the matters of other nations that impose political and social unjustness on their peoples is certainly not a duty, and should be generally discouraged, as it reinforces a system of unfulfillment of special obligations in other countries.